told we can now listen live to the
Israeli Health authorities speaking
about the health of the captives who've
just been released uh for us uh where uh
we as a organization had
the uh amazing privilege of being able
to treat uh our brothers and sisters our
children um that have been kept
kepted uh uh by the Hamas in the last
few weeks the edmon Safra Children's
Hospital uh together with the whole
Sheba Medical Center uh has been
preparing uh for this uh uh
opportunity uh We've gathered the best
uh
professionals uh and trained them uh we
learned a lot uh we uh consulted with
our peers and with the Israeli Ministry
of Health um and tried to prepare uh to
be able to give those that were kept uh
captive um any uh care and attention
they might need uh when this uh
fortunate event where they are released
uh happens uh and indeed uh last night
after a very uh
confusing uh and stressful uh period at
around 3:30 a.m. uh we received um uh
these uh 12 uh captives uh children and
women um that came
back um they underwent uh a medical
evaluation and a psychological
evaluation I am uh happy to say that
despite the fact that the uh har
conditions that have been under and the
um experience of captivity they did not
um require any emergent medical uh
intervention we will keep them here at
the edmona for children's hospital for
as long as they need uh and uh care for
them help them uh in their preparation
of coming back uh to their
communities um some of them uh have no
homes to come back to but they have a a
very significant and supporting
community that will
uh embrace them uh as the whole nation
Embraces them uh when they uh come back
on a personal note um this is a
pediatric hospital we have a lot of
emotional and significant uh days here
uh caring for children from uh all
over um I've been doing this for many
years and I have to tell you that this
uh past night was one of the most
significant evenings and and nights for
me and I'm I feel privileged to be to
have gotten the the opportunity to be
here for these uh children and their uh
and their families I think uh I share uh
this with the other members of the team
we've been here for uh many hours uh and
I I think no team member has uh has left
they all stay uh trying to care for
these uh to these uh uh people to these
children um there are only a very very
small part of the people that are kept
uh captive by
Hamas uh we pray together with the whole
nation I think with the with the world
for the early uh release of the rest of
the
captives um there are children there
there are uh women there there are are
elderly people there uh there are women
and men uh and we we are ready to treat
them as they come back hopefully uh very
soon I want to thank um the Israeli
Ministry of Health that um supported us
uh and okay you're listening to the
health authorities there in Israel at a
pediatric hospital that is holding some
of the 13 Israeli captives who were
released um yesterday today that's
Saturday and that includes seven
children we can cross now to Rory Chalin
who's in occupied East Jerusalem Rory
what are we
learning well sirel I think we're
getting the same kind of comments uh
today as we had yesterday uh from that
that Pediatric Hospital as well they
don't really go into specifics do they
they talk about the general harsh
conditions of captivity that the uh kids
and the people that they're looking
after have been under uh for the last
you know month plus uh they will keep
them in the hospital for as long as they
need they talked about how some of them
uh don't have homes to go back to
because their homes have been destroyed
on October the 7th they talked about the
emotional toll of everything uh and that
the team spirit uh of the people there
the Medics caring uh for those free
captives for the children particularly
uh has been as he put it pretty
impressive and they pray for the release
of the rest of the captiv so it's a
general message they're not going into
the individual stories of of the people
that they are looking after we do know
some of those individual stories though
because uh we have been hearing them
from Israeli media we've been hearing
about Emily Hans this 9-year-old Irish
Israeli who was at a sleepover at a
friend's house in kibot Bey this is one
of the communities in the south of
Israel that was most impacted by the
attacks of October the 7th how her
father thought she was dead for for a
long time after speaking to I think the
you know the chaos that surrounded
October the 7th for many days if not
weeks afterwards that it was thought
that this young girl had died we've
heard of Hiller rotam the 13-year-old
who was taken captive with her mother uh
again from kibot Bei her mother is still
in captivity that's causing considerable
anger uh in in Israel because one of the
terms they think the deal is under is
that parents mothers and children should
not be separated um so those are the
kind of details that we hearing on media
we didn't hear that particularly in that
press conference he was keeping it very
general yeah Rory chalins reporting from
occupied East Jerusalem there